<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
    <topic id="topic_kmz_lbg_rp">
        <title>Recommended Monitoring and Maintenance Tasks</title>
        <shortdesc>This section lists monitoring and maintenance activities recommended to ensure
            high availability and consistent performance of your Greenplum Database
            cluster.</shortdesc>
        <body>
            <p>The tables in the following sections suggest activities that a Greenplum System Administrator can perform periodically to
                ensure that all components of the system are operating optimally. Monitoring
                activities help you to detect and diagnose problems early. Maintenance activities
                help you to keep the system up-to-date and avoid deteriorating performance, for
                example, from bloated system tables or diminishing free disk space. </p>
            <p>It is not necessary to implement all of these suggestions in every cluster; use the
                frequency and severity recommendations as a guide to implement measures according to
                your service requirements. </p>
        </body>
        <topic id="drr_5bg_rp">
            <title>Database State Monitoring Activities</title>
            <body>
                <table frame="all" id="table_drr_5bg_rp">
                    <title>Database State Monitoring Activities</title>
                    <tgroup cols="3">
                        <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1"/>
                        <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2"/>
                        <colspec colname="c3" colnum="3"/>
                        <thead>
                            <row>
                                <entry>Activity</entry>
                                <entry>Procedure</entry>
                                <entry>Corrective Actions</entry>
                            </row>
                        </thead>
                        <tbody>
                            <row>
                                <entry>List segments that are currently down. If any rows are
                                    returned, this should generate a warning or alert.<p>Recommended
                                        frequency: run every 5 to 10 minutes</p><p>Severity:
                                        IMPORTANT</p></entry>
                                <entry>Run the following query in the <codeph>postgres</codeph>
                                    database:<codeblock>SELECT * FROM gp_segment_configuration
WHERE status &lt;&gt; 'u';</codeblock></entry>
                                <entry>If the query returns any rows, follow these steps to correct
                                    the problem:<ol id="ol_okh_2cg_rp">
                                        <li>Verify that the hosts with down segments are responsive. </li>
                                        <li>If hosts are OK, check the <filepath>pg_log</filepath>
                                            files for the <ph>primaries and
                                                mirrors of the </ph>down segments to discover the
                                            root cause of the segments going down. </li>
                                        <li>If no unexpected errors are found, run the
                                                <codeph>gprecoverseg</codeph> utility to bring the
                                            segments back online.</li>
                                    </ol></entry>
                            </row>
                            <row>
                                <entry>Check for segments that are currently in change tracking
                                    mode. If any rows are returned, this should generate a warning
                                    or alert.<p>Recommended frequency: run every 5 to 10
                                        minutes</p><p>Severity: IMPORTANT</p></entry>
                                <entry>
                                    <p>Execute the following query in the <codeph>postgres</codeph>
                                        database:<codeblock>SELECT * FROM gp_segment_configuration
WHERE mode = 'c';</codeblock></p>
                                </entry>
                                <entry>
                                    <p>If the query returns any rows, follow these steps to correct
                                        the problem:<ol id="ol_ezt_kcg_rp">
                                            <li>Verify that hosts with down segments are responsive. </li>
                                            <li>If hosts are OK, check the
                                                  <filepath>pg_log</filepath> files for the
                                                primaries and mirrors of the down segments to
                                                determine the root cause of the segments going down. </li>
                                            <li>If no unexpected errors are found, run the
                                                  <codeph>gprecoverseg</codeph> utility to bring the
                                                segments back online.</li>
                                        </ol></p>
                                </entry>
                            </row>
                            <row>
                                <entry>Check for segments that are currently re-syncing. If rows are
                                    returned, this should generate a warning or alert.<p>Recommended
                                        frequency: run every 5 to 10 minutes</p><p>Severity:
                                        IMPORTANT</p></entry>
                                <entry>
                                    <p>Execute the following query in the <codeph>postgres</codeph>
                                        database:<codeblock>SELECT * FROM gp_segment_configuration
WHERE mode = 'r';</codeblock></p>
                                </entry>
                                <entry>
                                    <p>When this query returns rows, it implies that the segments
                                        are in the process of being re-synched. If the state does
                                        not change from 'r' to 's', then check the
                                            <filepath>pg_log</filepath> files from the primaries and
                                        mirrors of the affected segments for errors.</p>
                                </entry>
                            </row>
                            <row>
                                <entry>Check for segments that are not operating in their optimal
                                    role. If any segments are found, the cluster may not be
                                    balanced. If any rows are returned this should generate a
                                    warning or alert. <p>Recommended frequency: run every 5 to 10
                                        minutes</p><p>Severity: IMPORTANT</p></entry>
                                <entry>
                                    <p>Execute the following query in the <codeph>postgres</codeph>
                                        database:
                                        <codeblock>SELECT * FROM gp_segment_configuration
WHERE preferred_role &lt;&gt; role;</codeblock></p>
                                </entry>
                                <entry>
                                    <p>When the segments are not running in their preferred role,
                                        hosts have uneven numbers of primary segments on each host,
                                        implying that processing is skewed. Wait for a potential
                                        window and restart the database to bring the segments into
                                        their preferred roles.</p>
                                </entry>
                            </row>
                            <row>
                                <entry>Run a distributed query to test that it runs on all segments.
                                    One row should be returned for each primary segment.
                                        <p>Recommended frequency: run every 5 to 10
                                        minutes</p><p>Severity: CRITICAL</p></entry>
                                <entry>
                                    <p>Execute the following query in the <codeph>postgres</codeph>
                                        database:<codeblock>SELECT gp_segment_id, count(*)
FROM gp_dist_random('pg_class')
GROUP BY 1;</codeblock></p>
                                </entry>
                                <entry>
                                    <p>If this query fails, there is an issue dispatching to some
                                        segments in the cluster. This is a rare event. Check the
                                        hosts that are not able to be dispatched to ensure there is
                                        no hardware or networking issue.</p>
                                </entry>
                            </row>
                            <row>
                                <entry>Test the state of master mirroring on a Greenplum Database<ph> 4.2 or
                                        earlier</ph> cluster. If the value is "Not Synchronized",
                                    raise an alert or warning.<p>Recommended frequency: run every 5
                                        to 10 minutes</p><p>Severity: IMPORTANT</p></entry>
                                <entry>
                                    <p>Execute the following query in the <codeph>postgres</codeph>
                                        database:
                                        <codeblock>SELECT summary_state
FROM gp_master_mirroring;</codeblock></p>
                                </entry>
                                <entry>
                                    <p>Check the <filepath>pg_log</filepath> from the master and
                                        standby master for errors. If there are no unexpected errors
                                        and the machines are up, run the
                                            <codeph>gpinitstandby</codeph> utility to bring the
                                        standby online. This requires a database restart on GPDB 4.2
                                        and earlier.</p>
                                </entry>
                            </row>
                            <row>
                                <entry>Test the state of master mirroring on Greenplum Database. If
                                    the value is not "STREAMING", raise an alert or
                                        warning.<p>Recommended frequency: run every 5 to 10
                                        minutes</p><p>Severity: IMPORTANT</p></entry>
                                <entry>
                                    <p>Run the following <codeph>psql</codeph>
                                        command:<codeblock>psql <i>dbname</i> -c 'SELECT pid, state FROM pg_stat_replication;'</codeblock></p>
                                </entry>
                                <entry>
                                    <p>Check the <filepath>pg_log</filepath> file from the master
                                        and standby master for errors. If there are no unexpected
                                        errors and the machines are up, run the
                                            <codeph>gpinitstandby</codeph> utility to bring the
                                        standby online. </p>
                                </entry>
                            </row>
                            <row>
                                <entry>Perform a basic check to see if the master is up and
                                        functioning.<p>Recommended frequency: run every 5 to 10
                                        minutes</p><p>Severity: CRITICAL</p></entry>
                                <entry>
                                    <p>Run the following query in the <codeph>postgres</codeph>
                                        database:
                                        <codeblock>SELECT count(*) FROM gp_segment_configuration;</codeblock></p>
                                </entry>
                                <entry>
                                    <p>If this query fails the active master may be down. Try again
                                        several times and then inspect the active master manually.
                                        If the active master is down, reboot or power cycle the
                                        active master to ensure no processes remain on the active
                                        master and then trigger the activation of the standby
                                        master.</p>
                                </entry>
                            </row>
                        </tbody>
                    </tgroup>
                </table>
            </body>
        </topic>
        <topic id="topic_y4c_4gg_rp">
            <title>Hardware and Operating System Monitoring</title>
            <body>
                <table frame="all" id="table_ls5_sgg_rp">
                    <title>Hardware and Operating System Monitoring Activities</title>
                    <tgroup cols="3">
                        <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1"/>
                        <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2"/>
                        <colspec colname="c3" colnum="3"/>
                        <thead>
                            <row>
                                <entry>Activity</entry>
                                <entry>Procedure</entry>
                                <entry>Corrective Actions</entry>
                            </row>
                        </thead>
                        <tbody>
                            <row>
                                <entry>Check disk space usage on volumes used for Greenplum Database data storage and the OS.
                                        <p>Recommended frequency: every 5 to 30
                                        minutes</p><p>Severity: CRITICAL</p></entry>
                                <entry>
                                    <p>Set up a disk space check.<ul id="ul_rs1_whg_rp">
                                            <li>Set a threshold to raise an alert when a disk
                                                reaches a percentage of capacity. The recommended
                                                threshold is 75% full.</li>
                                            <li>It is not recommended to run the system with
                                                capacities approaching 100%.</li>
                                        </ul></p>
                                </entry>
                                <entry>Free space on the system by removing some data or
                                    files.</entry>
                            </row>
                            <row>
                                <entry>Check for errors or dropped packets on the network
                                        interfaces.<p>Recommended frequency: hourly</p><p>Severity:
                                        IMPORTANT</p></entry>
                                <entry>Set up a network interface checks. </entry>
                                <entry>
                                    <p>Work with network and OS teams to resolve errors.</p>
                                </entry>
                            </row>
                            <row>
                                <entry>Check for RAID errors or degraded RAID performance.
                                        <p>Recommended frequency: every 5 minutes</p><p>Severity:
                                        CRITICAL</p></entry>
                                <entry>Set up a RAID check.</entry>
                                <entry>
                                    <ul id="ul_f4b_fjg_rp">
                                        <li>Replace failed disks as soon as possible. </li>
                                        <li>Work with system administration team to resolve other
                                            RAID or controller errors as soon as possible.</li>
                                    </ul>
                                </entry>
                            </row>
                            <row>
                                <entry>Check for adequate I/O bandwidth and I/O skew.<p>Recommended
                                        frequency: when create a cluster or when hardware issues are
                                        suspected.</p></entry>
                                <entry>Run the Greenplum
                                    <codeph>gpcheckperf</codeph> utility. </entry>
                                <entry>
                                    <p>The cluster may be under-specified if data transfer rates are
                                        not similar to the following: <ul id="ul_elm_dkg_rp">
                                            <li>2GB per second disk read</li>
                                            <li>1 GB per second disk write</li>
                                            <li>10 Gigabit per second network read and write </li>
                                        </ul>If transfer rates are lower than expected, consult with
                                        your data architect regarding performance expectations.</p>
                                    <p>If the machines on the cluster display an uneven performance
                                        profile, work with the system administration team to fix
                                        faulty machines.</p>
                                </entry>
                            </row>
                        </tbody>
                    </tgroup>
                </table>
            </body>
        </topic>
        <topic id="topic_gbp_jng_rp">
            <title>Catalog Monitoring</title>
            <body>
                <table frame="all" id="table_pdq_lng_rp">
                    <title>Catalog Monitoring Activities</title>
                    <tgroup cols="3">
                        <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1"/>
                        <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2"/>
                        <colspec colname="c3" colnum="3"/>
                        <thead>
                            <row>
                                <entry>Activity</entry>
                                <entry>Procedure</entry>
                                <entry>Corrective Actions</entry>
                            </row>
                        </thead>
                        <tbody>
                            <row>
                                <entry>Run catalog consistency checks to ensure the catalog on each
                                    host in the cluster is consistent and in a good
                                        state.<p>Recommended frequency: weekly</p><p>Severity:
                                        IMPORTANT</p></entry>
                                <entry>Run the Greenplum
                                    <codeph>gpcheckcat</codeph> utility in each
                                    database:<codeblock>gpcheckcat -O</codeblock></entry>
                                <entry>Run repair scripts for any issues detected.</entry>
                            </row>
                            <row>
                                <entry>Check for <codeph>pg_class</codeph> entries that have no
                                    corresponding pg_<codeph>attribute</codeph> entry.<p>Recommended
                                        frequency: monthly</p><p>Severity: IMPORTANT</p></entry>
                                <entry>During a downtime, with no users on the system, run the
                                        Greenplum
                                    <codeph>gpcheckcat</codeph> utility in each
                                    database:<codeblock>gpcheckcat -R pgclass</codeblock></entry>
                                <entry>Run the repair scripts for any issues identified.</entry>
                            </row>
                            <row>
                                <entry>Check for leaked temporary schema and missing schema
                                        definition.<p>Recommended frequency: monthly</p><p>Severity:
                                        IMPORTANT</p></entry>
                                <entry>During a downtime, with no users on the system, run the
                                        Greenplum
                                    <codeph>gpcheckcat</codeph> utility in each
                                    database:<codeblock>gpcheckcat -R namespace</codeblock></entry>
                                <entry>Run the repair scripts for any issues identified.</entry>
                            </row>
                            <row>
                                <entry>Check constraints on randomly distributed
                                        tables.<p>Recommended frequency: monthly</p><p>Severity:
                                        IMPORTANT</p></entry>
                                <entry>During a downtime, with no users on the system, run the
                                        Greenplum
                                    <codeph>gpcheckcat</codeph> utility in each
                                    database:<codeblock>gpcheckcat -R distribution_policy</codeblock></entry>
                                <entry>Run the repair scripts for any issues identified.</entry>
                            </row>
                            <row>
                                <entry>Check for dependencies on non-existent objects.<p>Recommended
                                        frequency: monthly</p><p>Severity: IMPORTANT</p></entry>
                                <entry>During a downtime, with no users on the system, run the
                                        Greenplum
                                    <codeph>gpcheckcat</codeph> utility in each
                                    database:<codeblock>gpcheckcat -R dependency</codeblock></entry>
                                <entry>Run the repair scripts for any issues identified.</entry>
                            </row>
                        </tbody>
                    </tgroup>
                </table>
            </body>
        </topic>
        <topic id="maintentenance_check_scripts">
            <title>Data Maintenance</title>
            <body>
                <table frame="all" id="table_tp4_nxg_rp">
                    <title>Data Maintenance Activities</title>
                    <tgroup cols="3">
                        <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1"/>
                        <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2"/>
                        <colspec colname="c3" colnum="3"/>
                        <thead>
                            <row>
                                <entry>Activity</entry>
                                <entry>Procedure</entry>
                                <entry>Corrective Actions</entry>
                            </row>
                        </thead>
                        <tbody>
                            <row>
                                <entry>Check for missing statistics on tables. </entry>
                                <entry>Check the <codeph>gp_stats_missing</codeph> view in each
                                    database:<codeblock>SELECT * FROM gp_toolkit.gp_stats_missing;</codeblock></entry>
                                <entry>Run <codeph>ANALYZE</codeph> on tables that are missing
                                    statistics.</entry>
                            </row>
                            <row>
                                <entry>Check for tables that have bloat (dead space) in data files
                                    that cannot be recovered by a regular <codeph>VACUUM</codeph>
                                    command. <p>Recommended frequency: weekly or
                                        monthly</p><p>Severity: WARNING</p></entry>
                                <entry>Check the <codeph>gp_bloat_diag</codeph> view in each
                                    database:
                                    <codeblock>SELECT * FROM gp_toolkit.gp_bloat_diag;</codeblock></entry>
                                <entry><codeph>VACUUM FULL</codeph> acquires an <codeph>ACCESS
                                        EXCLUSIVE</codeph> lock on tables. Run <codeph>VACUUM
                                        FULL</codeph> during a time when users and applications do
                                    not require access to the tables, such as during a time of low
                                    activity, or during a maintenance window.</entry>
                            </row>
                        </tbody>
                    </tgroup>
                </table>
            </body>
        </topic>
        <topic id="topic_dld_23h_rp">
            <title>Database Maintenance</title>
            <body>
                <p>
                    <table frame="all" id="table_vxx_f3h_rp">
                        <title>Database Maintenance Activities</title>
                        <tgroup cols="3">
                            <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1"/>
                            <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2"/>
                            <colspec colname="c3" colnum="3"/>
                            <thead>
                                <row>
                                    <entry>Activity</entry>
                                    <entry>Procedure</entry>
                                    <entry>Corrective Actions</entry>
                                </row>
                            </thead>
                            <tbody>
                                <row>
                                    <entry>Mark deleted rows in heap tables so that the space they
                                        occupy can be reused.<p>Recommended frequency:
                                            daily</p><p>Severity: CRITICAL</p></entry>
                                    <entry>Vacuum user
                                        tables:<codeblock>VACUUM <i>&lt;table></i>;</codeblock></entry>
                                    <entry>Vacuum updated tables regularly to prevent bloating.
                                    </entry>
                                </row>
                                <row>
                                    <entry>Update table statistics. <p>Recommended frequency: after
                                            loading data and before executing
                                            queries</p><p>Severity: CRITICAL</p></entry>
                                    <entry>Analyze user tables. You can use the
                                            <codeph>analyzedb</codeph> management
                                        utility:<codeblock>analyzedb -d <varname>&lt;database></varname> -a</codeblock></entry>
                                    <entry>Analyze updated tables regularly so that the optimizer
                                        can produce efficient query execution plans.</entry>
                                </row>
                                <row>
                                    <entry>Backup the database data.<p>Recommended frequency: daily,
                                            or as required by your backup plan</p><p>Severity:
                                            CRITICAL</p></entry>
                                    <entry>
                                        <ph>Run the <codeph>gpbackup</codeph>
                                            utility to create a backup of the master and segment
                                            databases in parallel.</ph>
                                    </entry>
                                    <entry>Best practice is to have a current backup ready in case
                                        the database must be restored. </entry>
                                </row>
                                <row>
                                    <entry>Vacuum, reindex, and analyze system catalogs to maintain
                                        an efficient catalog.<p>Recommended frequency: weekly, or
                                            more often if database objects are created and dropped
                                            frequently</p></entry>
                                    <entry>
                                        <ol id="ol_frs_nlh_rp">
                                            <li><codeph>VACUUM</codeph> the system tables in each
                                                database.</li>
                                            <li>Run <codeph>REINDEX SYSTEM</codeph> in each
                                                database, or use the <codeph>reindexdb</codeph>
                                                command-line utility with the <codeph>-s</codeph>
                                                option:
                                                <codeblock>reindexdb -s <varname>&lt;database></varname></codeblock></li>
                                            <li><codeph>ANALYZE</codeph> each of the system
                                                tables:<codeblock>analyzedb -s pg_catalog -d <varname>&lt;database></varname></codeblock></li>
                                        </ol>
                                    </entry>
                                    <entry>The optimizer retrieves information from the system
                                        tables to create query plans. If system tables and indexes
                                        are allowed to become bloated over time, scanning the system
                                        tables increases query execution time. It is important to
                                        run <codeph>ANALYZE</codeph> after reindexing, because
                                            <codeph>REINDEX</codeph> leaves indexes with no
                                        statistics. </entry>
                                </row>
                            </tbody>
                        </tgroup>
                    </table>
                </p>
            </body>
        </topic>
        <topic id="topic_idx_smh_rp">
            <title>Patching and Upgrading</title>
            <body>
                <table frame="all" id="table_td5_5mh_rp">
                    <title>Patch and Upgrade Activities</title>
                    <tgroup cols="3">
                        <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1*"/>
                        <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="1.02*"/>
                        <colspec colname="c3" colnum="3" colwidth="1.01*"/>
                        <thead>
                            <row>
                                <entry>Activity</entry>
                                <entry>Procedure</entry>
                                <entry>Corrective Actions</entry>
                            </row>
                        </thead>
                        <tbody>
                            <row>
                                <entry>Ensure any bug fixes or enhancements are applied to the
                                        kernel.<p>Recommended frequency: at least every 6
                                        months</p><p>Severity: IMPORTANT</p></entry>
                                <entry>Follow the vendor's instructions to update the Linux
                                    kernel.</entry>
                                <entry>Keep the kernel current to include bug fixes and security
                                    fixes, and to avoid difficult future upgrades. </entry>
                            </row>
                            <row>
                                <entry>Install Greenplum Database minor releases<ph>, for example
                                            5.0.<i>x</i></ph>.<p>Recommended frequency:
                                        quarterly</p><p>Severity: IMPORTANT</p></entry>
                                <entry>Follow upgrade instructions in the Greenplum Database
                                    <i>Release Notes</i>. Always upgrade to the latest in the
                                    series.</entry>
                                <entry>Keep the Greenplum Database software current to
                                    incorporate bug fixes, performance enhancements, and feature
                                    enhancements into your Greenplum
                                    cluster. </entry>
                            </row>
                        </tbody>
                    </tgroup>
                </table>
            </body>
        </topic>
    </topic>
</dita>
